The GUI requires MATLAB 2019a or newer. If other code has been run that has changed figure defaults (like code above), it is recommended that a new instance of MATLAB is opened or the command 'reset(groot);' is run before starting the GUI to avoid figure sizing errors. A video detailing how to use the GUI is included, along with example data.

The GUI has several main functions: to observe cells and groups of cells within the video and plot their individual fluorescence intensities, and to look at how these intensities are distributed. First, pre-processed data is loaded in using the interactive menu and Windows explorer dialog. The pre-processed data consists of the video, tracked intensities of each cell, and location of each cell, with the same naming convention (see example data). Intensity data is taken from 'pos_(#)_intensity' and 'pos_(#)_locs' .mat files. Then, the video player in the center can be used to either play at a specified framerate or scroll through all of the frames within the video. Individual cells can be clicked on within the video to display their intensities on the plot side of the GUI. The Cell ID # (given by the particle tracking code) or x-y coordinates can be used to find cells as well. 

Groups of cells can be selected using the rectangular selection tool. When using this functionality, the plots on the right side of the GUI can be interacted with. First, click within the plot area on one of the three colored plots (but not directly on a line). Then, a cursor will appear. Click on a point within the graph. After this process is completed, 'highlight cell' can be clicked on to circle the cell within the image, 'Timepoint Histograms' can be clicked on to produce a pop-up with histograms of all three colors at the selected time, and 'Cell Populations' can be clicked on to produce a pop-up with the selected area split into three populations based on the intensity of the blue curve at the selected time. At any point, 'Clear Current Data' can be used to start over. At the end of analysis, 'Save Cell ID List' will pop out a Windows dialog to save the list of cells that were interacted with within this session of the GUI.

Example data (with images) and an example video can be found at:
